The last message info command,
prints out message type definition to the console.
Let's get more information about the command vel topic.
Rosmsg info, the name of the package containing the message type.
In this case, it's geometry messages as we saw a moment ago and finally,
Twist, the name of the message type.
There we have it, the full message definition for the twist type.
You can see from the command output,
that a twist message itself is composed of two message of type vector three.
A type data's also defined in the geometry messages package.
There's one three-dimensional vector for linear velocity,
and one three-dimensional vector for angular velocity.
Each vector consists of three different 64-bit floating point components, coordinates x,
y, and z. Float64,
is one of the built-in primitive data types available to create custom messages.
To learn more about the built-in types and message definitions in general,
check out the links in the text module accompanying this video.
While ROS message info is a useful tool for getting information about messages,
it does not tell us everything we may wish to know.
Another tool at your disposal is RosEd.
RosEd, is a simple dash command that allows
you to easily view and edit files in your ROS environment.
Let's use it to view the twist message definition.
First, I'm going to clear this terminal.
Then, I'm going to execute the command, RosEd,
followed by geometry_msgs, the name of the package containing the message in question.
The final option is Twist.msg,
the name of the message definition we wish to open.
Remember, if you forget either the package name or the name of the message tag,
that completion will come to the rescue.
All right. Here we go.
It's the actual message definition.
It looks very similar to the output we saw from the ROS message info command.
Except, there are a couple important differences.
The first thing you might notice,
is that there are no details about how each vector three message is defined.
Instead, that detail is stored within the vector three message,
which also lives within this package.
The ROS message info command,
was simply doing us a favor of expanding the definitions in the console output.
The second thing you might notice are the commands.
This is the real reason to use rosed.
When in doubt, go to the source code.
ROS message info, didn't tell us anything
about how the twist message is intended to be used.
But the friendly ROS developer who created this message did.
Most of the message type definitions that are part of
a standardized distribution have a wealth of commands,
explaining how they are meant to be used.
Here, you can see that the twist messages are actually
intended to contain linear and actual velocity vectors.
This is something that might have been clear from the usage.
After all, we saw that these messages were being passed around on the command vel topic.
But this was unclear from looking at the output of the ROS message info command.
Once again, when in doubt, check the source code.
This is a common theme in ROS development.